Early on, Aelly and I were super interested in exploring tech trends. We were initially drawn to looking at HackerNews data and trying to correlate it with media reporting (understanding how often topics popular on HackerNews eventually get media attention). However, we eventually realized that we might need to scale down the project to a more specific technology trend (and a better data source). Therefore, we decided to look specifically into the contrasting perspectives between developers and mainstream media on AI impact. Given their expertise, did developers understand certain nuances that media tended to ignore in favor of clicks, or did the two perspectives largely agree? Given the prevalence of the topic today, we thought it was a much more focused and exciting discussion to explore.

Below is a copy of the problem formulation activity we did earlier in the semester:

Analyzing differences in AI concerns between developers and mainstream media sources

Exploration
HackerNews and Reddit for developer sentiment, GDELT for television news transcriptions, NYT API for articles, The Guardian API, webscraping or other news networks
How do developer and mainstream media reactions differ in how AI could affect future job shifts?
Developers have a unique take on AI because they understand the limitations of current AI models, while media sources tend to be more sensationalist and have more viewership, usually influencing regulation. Understanding the difference in reactions could help inform about a potential disconnect
Papers do exist that analyze news coverage of AI across different sectors. However, there are no studies that specifically look into the difference between developer sentiments and media coverage
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0736585324001278
An  example of one of the studies
Variables required
Global events for context
No media/developer discussion happens in a vacuum. Therefore, it is important that we use global events (e.g. announcement of mass layoffs) and understand how that might guide AI discussions
Sentiment
What kind of tone and sentiment dominate developer discussions and media coverage? Is one more overly positive than the other?
Who/What is covered
Coverage in media will be centered on companies, while developers tend to be more focused on libraries and languages.
Meaningful and successful answer
Identifying a specific topic which developers discuss more often than media coverage (e.g. AI hallucinations that prevent it from fully automating processes)
Who uses the results
This analysis can be used by the average consumer to understand a potential disconnect between how developers view AI vs. how media coverage perceives its impact
Is this problem realistic?
This problem is realistic given the resource constraints. Several data sources (Reddit, HackerNews, NYT, The Guardian, GDELT) have their own official APIs/datasets open for use
The only potential roadblock might be success with webscraping other news sources that do not have an official API

How will you track your progress during the semester?
	The project’s code will be stored in a git repo so we can both evaluate the current state of the project. Additionally, we will be using github issues and projects to keep an itemized to do list of deliverables needed for the project

The Heilmeier Catechism
1. What are you trying to do? Articulate your objectives using absolutely no jargon.
We are trying to see if the news media coverage of AI matches the programmers feelings on AI

2. How is it done today, and what are the limits of current practice?
There have been a few studies looking at developer sentiment towards AI but we didn’t find any study comparing that to news media

3. What is new in your approach, and why do you think it will be successful?
	We will be using the GDELT datasets to look at news coverage of AI and seeing if its sentiments match developer’s

4. Who cares? If you are successful, what difference will it make?
	AI is a hot topic right now driving a lot of the stock market, so getting a better understanding of public perception vs developer perception could give us an eye into the future of AI

5. What are the risks?
	There is no risk of misinterpreting the final results from our study.
6. How much will it cost?
	This project will not cost anything
7. How long will it take?
	This project will take approximately 3 months to complete

8. What are the mid-term and final "exams" to check for success?
	The mid term check will be if we are able to capture enough data from developers to run a sentiment analysis, while a final check would be doing sentiment analysis on both the developers and news coverage




